chef-johns-lasagna

Steps

Place sausage and ground beef into a large saucepan over medium heat; cook and
stir until meat is browned and crumbly, about 10 minutes. Break the meat apart
as it cooks. Stir in mushrooms, 1 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper,
Italian herb seasoning, and red pepper flakes. Turn heat to medium-high and
cook until mushrooms have given off their juices and bottom of pan is almost
dry.

Pour prepared marinara sauce into meat mixture. Pour water into marinara sauce
jar and shake to get all the sauce out of the jar; add to mixture. Reduce heat
to low and simmer until meat is extremely tender, about 2 hours. Add a little
more water if sauce becomes too thick. Skim excess fat from surface of the
sauce and season with more salt and black pepper, if needed. Turn off heat.

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).

Beat eggs in a large bowl and stir in ricotta cheese, 8 ounces diced
mozzarella cheese, and 2/3 cup Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese. Season cheese
mixture with 1 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon black pepper, and cayenne pepper;
mix in parsley.

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook lasagna in the boiling
water, stirring occasionally, until cooked through but firm to the bite, about
8 minutes. Drain and rinse noodles and set aside in a bowl of cold water.

Spread 1/4 the sauce into the bottom of a 10x15-inch baking pan. Top with 1/3
the noodles and spread 1/2 the ricotta cheese mixture over noodles. Spread 1/4
the meat sauce over the cheese, top with 1/3 the noodles, and spread remaining
1/2 the ricotta mixture over the noodles. Spread 1/4 the meat sauce over the
cheese filling. Tap the casserole dish lightly on a sturdy work surface to
settle the layers. Arrange last 1/3 the noodles over sauce and spread
remaining 1/4 the sauce over the noodles. Dot top of the casserole with 4
ounces diced fresh mozzarella cheese and sprinkle with 1/2 cup Parmigiano-
Reggiano cheese.

Cover casserole with aluminum foil, being sure not to touch the top of the
casserole with the foil. Place casserole onto a baking sheet to catch spills.

Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes. Remove foil and cook until lasagna
is golden brown and bubbling, 30 to 35 more minutes. Let set for 20 minutes
before cutting into squares.

Ingredients

1 pound bulk Italian sausage

1/2 pound lean ground beef

1 (8 ounce) package fresh mushrooms, coarsely chopped

1 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

1/2 teaspoon dried Italian herb seasoning

1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes

6 cups prepared marinara sauce

2 tablespoons water, plus more as needed

2 eggs

2 pounds whole-milk ricotta cheese

1 (8 ounce) container fresh mozzarella cheese, diced

2/3 cup freshly shredded Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese

1 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

1 pinch cayenne pepper, or to taste

1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley

1 (16 ounce) package lasagna noodles

1 (8 ounce) container fresh mozzarella cheese, diced

1/2 cup freshly shredded Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese

Data Parsed from this [ URL ](http://allrecipes.com/recipe/chef-johns-lasagna)

