lasagna-bolognese

Steps

Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rolling boil over
high heat. Stir in 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Once the water is boiling, stir
in the lasagna noodles, and return to a boil. Cook the pasta uncovered,
stirring occasionally, until the pasta has cooked through, but is still firm
to the bite, about 8 minutes. Drain well in a colander set in the sink.
Drizzle the cooked noodles with about 1 1/2 teaspoons of olive oil to prevent
them from sticking together.

Place the tomatoes, juice and all, into the work bowl of a food processor and
pulse to puree, about 1 minute. Set the tomatoes aside. Place the onion,
carrots, celery, garlic, sage, and rosemary into the food processor, and pulse
several times, until the vegetables are minced.

Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large saucepan over high heat until
smoking hot, and add the minced vegetables. Reduce heat to medium, and cook
and stir until the vegetables have softened and are just beginning to brown,
about 10 minutes. Stir in the ground beef and Italian sausage, and brown the
meat, breaking it apart into crumbles as it cooks, about 10 minutes. When the
meat is no longer pink, stir in the flour, and cook and stir about 2 more
minutes. Pour in the red wine, bring the mixture to a simmer, and cook,
stirring occasionally, until the wine has reduced, about 15 minutes. Pour the
pureed tomatoes, cream, Parmesan cheese, and cinnamon into the meat sauce,
bring to a boil over medium heat, reduce heat to a simmer, and cover the pan.
Cook the sauce, stirring occasionally, for 20 minutes. Set the sauce aside.

In a large bowl, mix together the ricotta cheese, eggs, 3/4 pound of shredded
mozzarella cheese, and kosher salt and pepper. Reserve 1/4 pound of mozzarella
for topping.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish
with olive oil.

To make the lasagna, lay about 4 noodles in the bottom of the prepared baking
dish, running the long way, and slightly overlap them to cover the bottom
completely. Spread 1/3 of the ricotta cheese mixture over the noodles, and top
with 1/4 of the meat sauce. Top with a second layer of noodles, running the
short way. Top the second layer with 1/3 of the ricotta cheese mixture and 1/4
of the meat sauce as before; make a 3rd layer of noodles, the last third of
the ricotta mixture, and 1/4 of the meat sauce. Place one more layer of
noodles, and top with the last 1/4 of the meat sauce. Sprinkle the reserved
mozzarella cheese over the top.

Bake in the preheated oven until the lasagna is bubbling and the cheese is
melted and lightly browned, 45 to 55 minutes. Let the lasagna stand about 5
minutes before serving.

Ingredients

1 pound dry lasagna noodles

1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil, divided

1 (28 ounce) can Italian whole peeled tomatoes (such as La ValleÂ®)

1 onion, coarsely chopped

2 carrots, coarsely chopped

2 stalks celery, coarsely chopped

3 cloves garlic, coarsely chopped

1 tablespoon fresh sage

1 tablespoon fresh rosemary

2 tablespoons olive oil

1 pound ground beef

1 pound sweet Italian sausage links, removed from casing and crumbled

2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

1 cup dry red wine

1/4 cup heavy cream

1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese

1 pinch ground cinnamon

1 (16 ounce) container ricotta cheese, broken apart with a fork

3 eggs, lightly beaten

1 pound shredded mozzarella cheese, divided

kosher salt to taste

freshly ground black pepper to taste

Data Parsed from this [ URL ](http://allrecipes.com/recipe/lasagna-bolognese)

