zucchini-lasagna-with-beef-and-sausage

Steps

Cook and stir ground beef, Italian sausage, onion, and garlic in a large
skillet over medium heat until the meat is crumbly and no longer pink, about
10 minutes. Drain grease and stir basil, oregano, brown sugar, red pepper
flakes, 1 teaspoon salt, black pepper, tomatoes, and tomato paste into the
meat. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and simmer meat sauce for 30
minutes. Stir occasionally.

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Grease a 9x13-inch baking dish.

Mix eggs, ricotta cheese, 1 cup Parmesan cheese, parsley, and 1 teaspoon salt
in a bowl until thoroughly combined. Pare several slices of skin lengthwise
from zucchini, alternating with strips of remaining skin. Cut zucchini into
long strips to resemble lasagna noodles. Discard seedy middle strips.

Place 1/3 of the zucchini strips into bottom of the prepared baking dish,
filling in any gaps with scrap pieces of zucchini. Spread half the ricotta
mixture over zucchini; spread 1 cup of mozzarella cheese over ricotta mixture;
spread 1/3 of the meat sauce over mozzarella cheese. Repeat layers once more,
layering 1/3 of zucchini strips, remaining half of the ricotta mixture, 1 more
cup of mozzarella cheese, and 1/3 of the meat sauce. Make a third layer of
remaining zucchini strips, remaining meat sauce, and 2 tablespoons Parmesan
cheese sprinkled on top.

Bake in the preheated oven until lasagna is bubbling and top is browned, about
1 hour. If top is browning too quickly, cover dish with aluminum foil during
last 15 minutes of baking time. Spread 1 cup mozzarella cheese on top of the
casserole and bake until mozzarella cheese topping is melted, 5 to 10 more
minutes. Let casserole stand 10 minutes before serving.

Ingredients

1/2 pound ground beef

1/2 pound bulk Italian sausage

1 onion, chopped

4 cloves garlic, minced

2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil

2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano

2 tablespoons brown sugar

1 tablespoon red pepper flakes, or to taste

1 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper

1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes

1 (12 ounce) can tomato paste

2 eggs

2 cups ricotta cheese

1 cup grated Parmesan cheese

1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley

1 teaspoon salt

3 large zucchini, trimmed

2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese, divided

2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese

1 cup shredded mozzarella cheese

Data Parsed from this [ URL ](http://allrecipes.com/recipe/zucchini-lasagna-
with-beef-and-sausage)

